Red Brick General (RBG) Hospital is upgrading their system to monitor patient vital signs - heart rate, respiration rate, blood pressure, body temperature, etc. Measurement data is acquired using sensor equipment attached to the patient and transmitted over a network interface to a bedside monitor. Data is transmitted from the sensor as a raw percentage (0-100) and then scaled to the actual measurement based on configurable limits used when defining the type of vital sign being collected. Data is displayed locally at the bedside monitor and at a central monitor located in the floor’s nursing station. The nurse’s station displays the current vital sign measurement and a trend of data over a configurable time period and rate (i.e. – last 10 minutes, 2 second updates). Each nursing station is typically responsible for ten beds, but during times of high occupancy the hospital would like the ability to increase that limit by assigning additional beds.

Each of the vital sign measurements has configurable limits (based on the type of patient) that generate alarms to the nursing station. Nurses acknowledge the vital sign alarm and then go to the patient’s room to reset the monitoring device. Patients also have a call button that is used to alert the nursing station. Nurses acknowledge the call button by going to the patient’s room and resetting the call request.

The system must be able to record the history of a patient while in the hospital. History includes the storage and retrieval of vital sign alarm and acknowledgements. Statistics are also maintained for the number of alarms and call button requests along with the response time for acknowledgements. Simple reports can be requested from the nurse’s station to retrieve historical data.